Strings are objects in Ruby. Unlike Python, they're mutable (like PHP).

### 1.1 Double Quotes and Single Quotes

You can have it ``''`` or ``""``

```ruby
	'This is a string'
	"This is also a string"
```

The difference between ``""`` and ``''`` is that ``""`` can interpret escape characters (like `\n`) while `''` do not.

### 1.2 Determine the Length

To determine the length of a string, we use the ``length`` method:

```ruby
irb(main):001:0> sentence = "this is a sentence"
=> "this is a sentence"
irb(main):002:0> sentence.length
=> 18
```

Note that `.()` is optional when you call a method.

### 1.3 String Interpolation

Like Python using f-string, Ruby also has string interpolation. We use ``#{}`` as a placeholder for our variables to represent something.

```ruby
	def say_name(name)
		puts "Your name is #{name}"
	end

	#If name is John, the function will print:
	#"Your name is John"
```

### 1.4 Sub-string functions

There are:
- `include?`
- `start_with?` or `starts_with?`
- `end_with?` or `ends_with?` 

To determine if the specified sub-string is included in a string, we use the ``include?`` method. The `?` is to show that `include` returns a boolean value.

```ruby
	#Note how the strings are case-sensitive 
	irb(main):001:0> "Apples, oranges, pears".include? "apples"
	=> false

	irb(main):002:0> "Apples, oranges, pears".include? "oranges"
	=> true
```

```ruby

#These are also case-sensitive

# Prints: True
puts "Ruby is a beautiful language".start_with?("Ruby")

# Prints: True
puts "I can't work with any other language but Ruby".end_with? "Ruby"
```


### 1.5 Finding the index of a Character
		
We use the `index` method determine the index of a character in the string. It returns us the index wth 0 begin inclusive.

```ruby
	puts "I am a Rubyist".index("R")
	#Prints: 7
```

### 1.6 Manipulating Strings

There are different ways to manipulate a string in Ruby: 

If we wish to capitlize every letter in our string, we use the `upcase` function. Otherwise, we use the `downcase` function to lowercase every letter. There's also the swapping letters option with `swapcase`.

```ruby
	puts 'This is LOWERCASE'.downcase
	# Prints: this is lowercase

	puts 'oh my god'.upcase
	# Prints: 'OH MY GOD'

	puts "ThiS iS A vErY ComPlEx SenTeNcE".swapcase 
	#Prints: tHIs Is a VeRy cOMpLeX sENtEnCe 
```

### 1.7 Difference between `puts` and `p` (additional)

Basically, `p` prints out what it is. `puts` however, will treat the argument as a string.

[link](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.4.1/IO.html#method-i-puts).

#### puts

Basically, if using it with an array, it will call the each method (iterates through and prints them one by one). If the passing argument is an a string or a an array, it will print the object its string representation by calling the `to_s` method. It can interpret escape characters.

>`puts(obj, ...) → nil`
>
>Writes the given object(s) to ios. Writes a **newline** after any that do **not already** end with a newline sequence. **Returns nil**.
>The stream must be opened for writing. If called with an **array** argument, writes **each element** on a new line. Each given object that isn’t a string or array will be converted by calling its `to_s` method. If called without arguments, outputs a single newline.


#### p 

It will not interpret escape characters. It will always print based on its type respectively.

>`p(obj) → obj click to toggle source`
  `p(obj1, obj2, ...) → [obj, ...] p() → nil`
  For each object, directly writes obj.inspect followed by a newline to the program’s standard output.
 
```ruby
	number = 2
	puts 2.class
	p 2.class
```