
### 1.4.0 Indices 

Arrays (like Python) are represented with square brackets (`[]`). `Array.new` is an alias of `[]`.

Arrays in Ruby can be a combination of different types (strings, integers, floats ,etc) (just like Python but not like C).

In any C-based languages, we look up the value of an array as a variable by their index like `arr[i]`. In Ruby, we can take the array and type two more enclosed square brackets with an index inside like this: 

```ruby
#This will print 3
puts [1,2,3,4][2]
```

Pretty interesting huh?

Just like in Python, we can also start backwards from right to left. We use a negative number as an index to look for our value in the other direction. This is called "reverse index lookup". 

```ruby
	puts [1,2,3,4][-0]
	puts [1,2,3,4][-1]
```

### 1.4.1 Growing the Array

Unlike C, the size of the array is not fixed,  We use `<<` to append any datatype to our array. We can only use the insetion operator `<<` when we want to add a single element in the array.

```ruby
	puts [3,1,4,1,5] << "Pi is irrational dude"
```

We can use the `push` method to add more than one elements in the array

```ruby
	puts [8,2,5].push("Some random string", 0, 'Yeah')
```


### 1.4.2 Changing the Array

There are different way to change the contents of the array, one that is based on a condition and one without. 

We use `Array#map` and/or `Array#collect` (they're the same) to iterate through every element and commit the action specified in `{}`.

Just as much as there is a ternary operator for an if else block, there is a `map` method for arrays as a shorthand for a for loop
```ruby
	puts "With map"
	puts [1,2,3,4].map {|i| i + 1 }

	puts "With collect"
	puts [2,4,6,8].collect{|i| i/2}
```

Meahwhile the `Array#select` needs a condition (boolean expression), not a statement.  

`Array#select` is kind of like a shorthand for a while loop while `Array#map`/`Array#collect` is like a shorthand for a for loop.

```ruby
	names = ['rock', 'paper', 'scissors', 'lizard', 'spock']
	puts names.select { |name| name.length > 5}
```

### 1.4.3 Deleting the elements

We use `Array#delete` to delete every occurrence of a given argument.

```ruby
	arr = [1,3,4,6,1] 
	p arr
	puts "Deleting all elements with value 1"
	deleted_number = arr.delete 1
	puts "Deleted: #{deleted_number}"
	puts
	p arr
```

If we wish to make a condition before deletion, we use `Array#delete_if` 

```ruby
	p [1,5,10,2,6,5].delete_if{ |i| i % 5 != 0 }
```

